Here's a mail from Amrit on porting Python 1.0.2 to DOS.  Also see the
file BUILD for more concrete info.

Subject: Python 1.0.2 on DOS
From: amrit@xvt.com (Consultant)
To: guido@cwi.nl
Date: Fri, 13 May 1994 12:25:55 -0600 (MDT)

I have ported Python 1.0.2 to DOS using GCC 2.5.7 running under DJ's
extender version 1.11.  The 1.11 extender is much better; It runs better
under DMPI (Windows), so I no longer get "buggy read.s module."

I took more time doing a careful port of Python by writing custom
configuration files for DJGPP and QuickWin.  Thus the time functions now
work much better.  (In particular, it now uses DJGPP's gettimeofday()
function, whereas before, without config.h, it was just using the
ANSI time() function.)

Great news!  I got keyboard interrupts working for the DOS extended version
of the Python interpreter; pressing Control-Break on the DJGPP version will
raise the KeyboardInterrupt exception.  However Control-C will still terminate
the Python process, and both Control-Break and Control-C will terminate the
QuickWin Python program :-(  For the DOS documentation, I wonder if you
should emphasize that control-break is the interrupt key of choice.

The regular expression globbing feature of Python was broken on DOS.  This
was due to a combination of a bug in dospath.py and dosmodule.c.  I am
sending you the fixes to both.  I made several changes to dosmodule.c:

    dosmodule.c now works with both the Borland findfirst/findnext directory
    search functions and the Microsoft _dos_findfirst/_dosfindnext directory
    functions.  DJGPP uses the Borland interface, so it makes sense to
    have the code work for both methods.  (Also, then it can work for Borland)
    I noticed that an earlier version of dosmodule.c supported both interfaces,
    so I wonder why you took that support out.

    Fixed a bug where listdir('') returned the listing of the root directory
    instead of the current directory.

    I changed the file attributes for findfirst() so that system files are
    not included in the directory search.  Users should not be messing with
    these. (IMHO)

    I added system() for QuickWin back to dosmodule.c.  You told me you moved
    it to a separate file, but I couldn't find it in the distribution.  :-(

    dospath.py was broken where normalize() would convert regular expression
    metacharacters into '_'.

I am sending you the configuration files I wrote for the extended dos version
(config.dj) and the QuickWin version (config.qw).  As well as the config.h
that I use, which merely includes either config.dj or config.qw as
appropriate.  Also, you will find the new intrcheck.c module and the new dos
modules, and some diffs.

Since the DOS globbing is so badly broken, it might be worthwhile to release
a patch with just the source for dosmodule.c and the new dospath.py (or
however you choose to fix glob()).

Also, if you want me to submit another gcc build of Python, let me know;
I will be happy do do that.  I lost the readme that I wrote that gave the
installation instructions, so if you cand send the one I wrote previously
(If you still have it.) that will save me from having to create another one.
